So we
have removed our bone from our shoulder,
and I'm going to prepare this
for a shoulder roast.
A couple of things before I do that.
This one's really important over here
and there's this triangular piece
of fat here inside of it and has a gland.
You can see it here.
OK. A gland like this is one of the things
that contributes to that gamey flavor
that we associate with lamb.
It's important that we remove it.
It's also important that we remove it
because glands spoil faster than meat.
And if we were to, let's say,
grind this into some meat,
it would not be good for the end result.
So that's what I'm going to start with.
We're just going to remove
this fairly nice and easy.
OK. Next up,
I've got this piece with heavy duty
connective tissue.
This is part of the foreshank
it attached to the foreshank.
So I'm just going to kind of come
underneath here and remove that piece.
Likely
this will be pushed into my ground meat,
but I will clean up this silver skin
before I add it to that.
Next,
I'm looking for connective tissue,
so I've got a good amount of it over here.
I know that my scapula was connected
right here
and I can see in here that there's
a big ropey piece of connective tissue
and that's what I'm going to start with.
So while we're talking about shoulders,
shoulders are also a great one
to braise a little moist cooking.
That would be lovely here.
So now I'm just about underneath
and I'm going to do
a nice long stroke here
and remove that.
And I'm underneath it, pulling
and cutting with that knife long
knife strokes here.
And look at that connective tissue
that we've removed.
So I'm just looking at the shape of
this I'm also feeling this fat,
so I'm going to thin this fat
just a little bit before I go further
and I'm also going to remove
this pink part , which is skin.
So I've got the shape
that I'm looking for.
This little setup is great.
At the end there,
I'm just trying to tuck it in with my hand
so that I get a good shape.
And apply
some string to either end of this.
And now I
have a shoulder roast ready for the oven.